Wired Ethernet networks don't have any authentication by default to access the network.
All you need to do is plug your ethernet cable into a switch and you'll gain access to the network with
no authentication no authorization and no accounting properly or authentication authorization and accounting
is a way to centralize policies that are applied to network devices as an example you could centralize
the authentication of users by using a triple A server such as Cisco secure AC authentication means
that you are authenticating a user name and password before a user can access the network or a device
on the network.
Authorization determines what you are allowed to do once you've been authenticated So are you as an
example allowed to go to privilege mode or enable mode on a router.
Are you allowed to access a server on the network.
Accounting is a log of what happened on the network.
So as an example you could log users attempts to access a network device via telnet or SSA each.
In a moment I'll demonstrate Triple A using a genius 3 network where I have a Cisco AC server connected
the server is running within VM where it is connected via a genius 3 switch to multiple network devices.
I'll configure the network to use local authentication and then we'll centralize the authentication
so that Loggins or authorized from a central AC a server rather than having a local username and password
database on each network device not to stop anyone just accessing your network.
You can implement identity based authentication or identity based networks by using a protocol called
Ada to load one ex the actual edited or one X standard allows you to implement identity based networking
where a client machine has to present a user name and password before they can gain access to the network
in Ada to the 1x.
You have three components or three roles.
The client also known as the supplicant is a P.C. such as a Windows P.C. running Ada to at 1 x compliant
client software and authenticator doesn't authenticate the client that sends authentication information
through to an authentication server.
The authenticator would be something like an internet switch which is controlling access to the network.
The client PCI is connected to a port on the switch acting as the authenticator and no frames from the
client are permitted except Ada stood at 1 x frames before authentication takes place.
So when the client sends traffic to the switch acting as the authenticator it will send an ADA to that
one X challenge to the client asking for authentication information a user name and password is sent
to the switch but the switch doesn't read that information but passes it on to the authentication server
which could be a radius or tax server radius and tack X or the protocols are used between the authenticator
and the authentication server.
The authentication server validates the credentials of the client.
In other words it makes sure that the client username and password are correct and that the client is
allowed to access the network.
If the username and password are correct the authentication service sends a message to the authenticator
or switch which then permits the client to access to the network the authenticator sends a successful
authentication message to the client.
And now when the client forwards traffic such as HDP or telnet traffic that is permitted onto the network.
The important thing with editor at 1 x is that the client cannot access the network until authentication
has succeeded based on the information stored in the authentication server and authentication server
could use a local database or it could use a centralized directory such as active directory for the
storing of usernames and passwords.